At the outset of the Great War in 1914, Canada as a nation was in shambles. Hit with a depression in 1913, nationally divided by language and race, and with traditional sexism running rampant, Canada was not the matured country it is today. However, by 1929, several significant events allowed for the economic and social maturity of Canada as a nation. During this period, Canada’s economy experienced periods of prosperity and depression that helped shape Canada’s economy today. Furthermore, women’s place in society evolved from traditional occupations and domestic roles to occupations once held exclusively by men and acknowledgement in the form of national and political involvement. Finally, with the help of William Lyon Mackenzie King, British and French-Canadians took a step towards national unity and independence. Therefore, the years of 1914 to 1929 can be considered to be the phase of maturation for Canada, as its periods of economic prosperity and depression, the evolution of women in society, and the development of national unity and independence all culminated into the creation of present-day Canada.  
	
 	Periods of economic booms and busts defined Canada in the years between 1914 and 1929, as it led to the maturation of Canada’s economy in the future. At the time, Canada’s economy was relatively very instable. In 1913, Canada was hit with a depression, leaving hundreds of thousands out of jobs, mainly due to loss of investors in Canada’s economy and waves of immigrants looking for opportunities (Granatstein 92). However, with the war, Canada’s economy was given an opportunity to flourish once more; the inevitable requirement of production of army munitions and food for the war effort boosted Canadian production (Newman 98). 
	After the war came another depression which lasted until 1924. There was a significantly reduced global demand for munitions and food. European countries had huge war debts, leaving them with less to spend on Canadian exports. High tariffs in the United States further discouraged Canadian trade. This lack of market for Canadian goods led to high rates of unemployment and an increased amount of bankruptcies, which further worsened the economic situation (147). 
However, Canada soon experienced the “Roaring 20s”, a period of prosperity. Canada’s strong economy eventually allowed them to lend funds to European countries in debt, allowed them to purchase Canadian exports. Canada’s economy began to flourish due to the growing American demand for newsprint, nickel, copper and automobiles (147). Unfortunately, this period of prosperity ended on October 29th, 1929, otherwise known as Black Friday, when the stock market crashed. It signified the beginning of the Great Depression, the darkest economic times in Canada’s history (153-154). 
	Therefore, Canada in 1914 to 1929 was defined by its economic rollercoaster and its effect on Canada’s economy today. By effectively learning from the mistakes of Canada’s past instable economy, Canada avoided and will avoid drastic negative changes in its economy. Canada’s economy has matured; the chances of another Great Depression are slim.  
		
	Canada’s maturity in its economy was comparable to Canada’s progressiveness in terms of gender equality between 1914 and 1929. Women before the war still had traditional roles in society and were mostly domestic. However, with the beginning of the war, their role in society evolved, becoming the catalyst for change allowing Canada to develop egalitarian values, or a society in which individuals are treated as equals. 
	During the Great War, women plugged labour shortages in factories, farm fields, schools and offices (Gray 1). This was a first step towards gender equality in the workplace; it provided an opportunity for women to enter jobs that were once exclusive to men. After the war, women were once again restricted to traditional occupations, but this temporary opportunity set a precedent for other women entering the workforce (Granatstein 177).      
	Moreover, women became further involved in national affairs. For one, in 1917, Prime Minister Robert Borden allowed limited female federal voting with the Wartimes Election Act, and a year later, full voting rights (Gray 1). This led to the birth of early feminists such as Nellie McClung and Emily Murphy, who began to take steps to change the social structure of Canada. They fought for minimum wages in sweat shops, gender equality under the law, and improved government services (2). They achieved representation in provincial governments, but could not sit in the Canadian Senate because they were not defined as persons in the 1867 British North America Act, Canada’s founding legislation (2). However, on the 18th of October, 19
  , the Supreme Court decision that women were not persons was overturned by the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council in Great Britain (Granatstein 209).
	Therefore, this time period was defined by Canada’s development of egalitarian values, allowing for gender equality to flourish today. During this time, attention to gender inequality became widespread; this led to the feminist movement and fight for gender equality. This allowed for Canada to change from a traditional society ridden with gender inequality to the egalitarian society it is today.   
		
	At the same time, French and British-Canadians developed their sense of Canadian nationalism just as how women discovered their place in society. Before the war, French-Canadian and British-Canadian tensions were already high; with the introduction of conscription by Robert Borden with the Military Service Act in 1917, he further divided the country (Newman 94). French-Canadians did not appreciate the idea of fighting for Britain or France, as they no longer had ties with either country after France abandoned Québec in the 1760s (Granatstein 117). This led to British-Canadians feeling as though the French were not pulling their weight. The prejudice against French-Canadians was very apparent as well, as French soldiers were placed in English speaking battalions and the French language was restricted in Ontario schools (116).
	This national division could be attributed to Borden having prioritized other matters during the war over relations with the French-Canadians. With the election of William Lyon Mackenzie King as Prime Minister in 1921 (192), King sought for a change. He wanted national unity in Canada; he would do anything to strengthen the Canadian identity. He gave Ernest Lapointe the responsibility of keeping Québec happy, working together to maintain the loyalty of the French-Canadians (192). By the end of his first term in 1925, he had succeeded; Québec no longer felt isolated (199). 
	To help further develop national unity, King sought to make Canada an autonomous country. By Canada’s past, it was clear that nothing divided Canadians faster than British foreign policy. For example, the British forcing Canada into the Boer War led to strong pro-British and anti-British sentiments. The Great War separated the French and British-Canadians similarly (205). At the Imperial Conference in London in 1923, King rejected the idea of a united Commonwealth policy decided by the British; instead, he stated Canada would act by its own parliament, have its own foreign policy, and would not obliged to help the British (207). The Imperial Conference in 1926 made this official; a new Commonwealth had emerged in which all members are autonomous, in no way lesser than the other (208). 
	Therefore, this period of time is well defined by its advancements in nationally uniting the French and British-Canadian groups together, with the aid of King. British and French-Canadians no longer associated themselves with their country of origin; they now defined themselves as Canadians. 
		
The maturation of Canada in 1914 to 1929 through its periods of economic prosperity and depression, the evolution of women in society and the development of national unity between French and British-Canadians served as the most significant events of the time period. The instability of the Canadian economy leading up the Great Depression served as a valuable lesson that guarantees a stable economy for the future. The evolution of the female role in society in the form of entering occupations once men exclusive as well as political involvement served as a catalyst for change towards gender equality.  Furthermore, after years of tension, the union of French and British-Canadians and the birth of Canada as an autonomous country allowed for Canadians to assume a Canadian identity, rather than a French or British one. This period of time was defined by Canada’s maturing colours; the Canada in 1929 was completely different from the Canada in 1914. Canada has evolved, just as how a green maple leaves develops a shade of red during autumn; a completely different nation has been born.   
